README.md, before:

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg)](https://github.com/hacs/integration)

# Heat Pump card

Home Assistant dashboard card displaying heat pump parameters

![Example picture of the heat pump card.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ManfredTremmel/lovelace-heat-pump-card/refs/heads/main/dist/heat-pump-card/heat-pump.svg)

## Installation

### Easiest method:

✨ Install via HACS

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and open a repository inside the Home Assistant Community Store.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/hacs_repository.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/hacs_repository/?owner=ManfredTremmel&repository=lovelace-heat-pump-card)

### Alternative method:

1. Download `Source code` file from the [Releases][releases] page
2. Unzip and upload all stuff out of dist folder to `/www/community/lovelace-heat-pump-card` (via Samba, File Editor, SSH, etc.)
3. Visit the Resources page in your Home Assistant install and add `/hacsfiles/lovelace-heat-pump-card/heat-pump-card.js` as a
   JavaScript Module.
   [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your dashboard resources.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/lovelace_resources.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/lovelace_resources/)
4. Refresh your browser

## Options

| Name | Type | Requirement | Description
| ---- | ---- | ----------- | -----------
| title | string | optional | Title of the card, if empty no title is displayed
| heatingPumpType | string | optional | Chose between three types of heat pump: "A2W" (Air to Water), "W2W" (Water to Water) and "G2W" (Ground to Water), if not set, A2W is used as default
| temperatureGroundWaterIn | object | optional | Used for "W2W" and "G2W" heat pumps for input temerature
| temperatureGroundWaterOut | object | optional | Used for "W2W" and "G2W" heat pumps for output temerature
| heatingPumpStatusOnOff | object | optional | if heating pump is off, power symbol is displayed
| heatingPumpHotWaterMode | object | optional | Hot Water Mode, when on, faucet symbol is displayed
| heatingPumpHeatingMode | object | optional | if Heating Mode is on, radiator symbol is displayed
| heatingPumpCoolingMode | object | optional | in Cooling Mode, the cooling symbol is displayed
| heatingPumpPartyMode | object | optional | in Party Mode the drinking glass symbol and `ambientTemperatureParty` (when set) is displayed
| heatingPumpEnergySaveMode | object | optional | in Energy Saving Mode the piggybank symbol and `ambientTemperatureReduced` (when set) is displayed
| heatingPumpNightMode | object | optional | Night Mode switches between sun and moon symbol
| warning | object | optional | A warning symbol is displayed, when result is on
| error | object | optional | A error symbol is displayed, when result is on
| defrostMode | object | optional | A defrost mode symbol is displayed, when result is on
| outdoorTemperature | object | optional | Outdoor Temperature
| ambientTemperatureNormal | object | optional | Ambient Temperature normal
| ambientTemperatureReduced | object | optional | Ambient Temperature reduced (used when `heatingPumpEnergySaveMode` is on)
| ambientTemperatureParty | object | optional | Ambient Temperature Party (used when `heatingPumpPartyMode` is on)
| supplyTemperature | object | optional | Supply Temperature
| hpRunning | object | optional | when Primary Source is active, the fan animation is running
| compressorRunning | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Compressor is running
| circulatingPumpRunning | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Circulating Pump is running, if not defined, circulating pump is not displayed
| tankHP | boolean | optional | Binary setting to display buffer tank or not
| tankTempHPUp | object | optional | Buffer Temperature up, displayed in buffer tank and fill upper color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃). If not set, buffer tank is not displayed!
| tankTempHPMiddle | object | optional | Buffer Temperature middle, displayed in buffer tank and middle fill color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃), if not set, for calculating fill color above temperature - 5 ℃ is used
| tankTempHPDown | object | optional | Buffer Temperature down, displayed in buffer tank and lower fill color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃), if not set, for calculating fill color above temperature - 5 ℃ is used
| tankWW | boolean | optional | Binary setting to display hot water buffer tank or not
| tankTempWWUp | object | optional | Hot Water Buffer Temperature up, displayed in buffer tank and fill upper color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃). If not set, hot water path and tank is not displayed!
| tankTempWWMiddle | object | optional | Hot Water Buffer Temperature middle, displayed in buffer tank and middle fill color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃), if not set, for calculating fill color above temperature - 5 ℃ is used
| tankTempWWDown | object | optional | Hot Water Buffer Temperature down, displayed in buffer tank and lower fill color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃), if not set, for calculating fill color above temperature - 5 ℃ is used
| heatingCircuitType1 | string | optional | Type of first Heating Circuit, "off", "underfloor" or "radiator" default is "off" the circuit is hidden in this case
| heatingCircuitPumpBeforeValve | boolean | optional | Binary setting, when true, display the circuit pump before the valve
| heatingCircuitPumpRunning | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Heating Circuit Pump is running, if not defined, heating circuite pump is not displayed
| supplyTemperatureHeating | object | optional  | Supply Temperature Heating, when not defined heating pipe is not displayed
| refluxTemperatureHeating | object | optional | Reflux Temperature Heating
| heatingCircuitType2 | string | optional | Type of second Heating Circuit, "off", "underfloor" or "radiator" default is "off" the circuit is hidden in this case
| heatingCircuitPumpRunning2 | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Heating Circuit Pump is running, if not defined, heating circuite pump is not displayed
| supplyTemperatureHeating2 | object | optional  | Supply Temperature Heating, when not defined heating pipe is not displayed
| refluxTemperatureHeating2 | object | optional | Reflux Temperature Heating
| heatingCircuitType3 | string | optional | Type of third Heating Circuit, "off", "underfloor" or "radiator" default is "off" the circuit is hidden in this case
| heatingCircuitPumpRunning3 | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Heating Circuit Pump is running, if not defined, heating circuite pump is not displayed
| supplyTemperatureHeating3 | object | optional  | Supply Temperature Heating, when not defined heating pipe is not displayed
| refluxTemperatureHeating3 | object | optional | Reflux Temperature Heating
| evaporatorPressure | object | optional | Evaporator Pressure
| evaporatorTemperature | object | optional  | Evaporator Temperature
| condenserPressure | object | optional | Condenser Pressure
| condenserTemperature | object | optional | Condenser Temperature
| expansionValveOpening | object | optional | Opening Expansion Valve
| wwHeatingValve | object | optional  | Heating/Hot Water Valve
| heaterRodWW | object | optional | Heater Rod Hot Water is active and displayed in the buffer tank
| heaterRodHP | object | optional | Heater Rod Heating is active and displayed in the buffer tank
| heaterRodLevel1 | object | optional | Heater Rod is using Level 1, color is set to orange
| heaterRodLevel2 | object | optional | Heater Rod is using Level 2, color is set to red
| linkDetails | string | optional | Link to details page
| linkSettings | string | optional | Link to settings page


### Example

This are my settings for Viessmann Vitocal 350 heating pump with Vitotronic 200 controller, most stuff is provided by Vcontrol add-on (everything with `mosquitto_mqtt_broker` in the name),
additional binary_sensors I've created as helper to translate the heat pump modes to universal values. Otherwise a translation for each different heat pump needed to be integrated.

```yaml
- type: custom:heat-pump-card
  title: Wärmepumpe
  heatingPumpType: A2W
  temperatureGroundWaterIn: ""
  temperatureGroundWaterOut: ""
  heatingPumpStatusOnOff: binary_sensor.heating_pump_status_on_off
  heatingPumpHotWaterMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_hot_water_mode
  heatingPumpHeatingMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_heating_mode
  heatingPumpCoolingMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_cooling_mode
  heatingPumpPartyMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_party_mode
  heatingPumpEnergySaveMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_energy_save_mode
  heatingPumpNightMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_night_mode
  warning: ""
  error: ""
  defrostMode: ""
  outdoorTemperature: sensor.mosquitto_broker_aussentemperatur
  ambientTemperatureNormal: number.mosquitto_broker_raumsolltemperatur_normal
  ambientTemperatureReduced: number.mosquitto_broker_raumsolltemperatur_reduziert
  ambientTemperatureParty: number.mosquitto_broker_raumsolltemperatur_party
  supplyTemperature: sensor.mosquitto_broker_anlagenvorlauftemperatur
  hpRunning: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_primaerquelle
  compressorRunning: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_verdichter
  circulatingPumpRunning: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_warmwasser_zirkulationspumpe
  tankHP: true
  tankTempHPUp: sensor.mosquitto_broker_pufferspeichertemperatur
  tankTempHPMiddle: ""
  tankTempHPDown: ""
  tankWW: true
  tankTempWWUp: sensor.mosquitto_broker_warmwassertemperatur_oben
  tankTempWWMiddle: ""
  tankTempWWDown: ""
  heatingCircuitType1: underfloor
  heatingCircuitPumpBeforeValve: false
  heatingCircuitPumpRunning: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_heizkreispumpe
  supplyTemperatureHeating: sensor.mosquitto_broker_vorlauftemperatur_heizkreis
  refluxTemperatureHeating: ""
  heatingCircuitType2: "off"
  heatingCircuitPumpRunning2: ""
  supplyTemperatureHeating2: ""
  refluxTemperatureHeating2: ""
  heatingCircuitType3: "off"
  heatingCircuitPumpRunning3: ""
  supplyTemperatureHeating3: ""
  refluxTemperatureHeating3: ""
  evaporatorPressure: sensor.mosquitto_broker_druck_im_verdampfer
  evaporatorTemperature: sensor.mosquitto_broker_temperatur_verdampfer
  condenserPressure: sensor.mosquitto_broker_druck_im_kondensator
  condenserTemperature: ""
  expansionValveOpening: ""
  wwHeatingValve: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_warmwasserventil
  heaterRodWW: switch.mosquitto_broker_freigabe_elektroheizung_fuer_ww_bereitung
  heaterRodHP: switch.mosquitto_broker_freigabe_heizen_mit_elektro
  heaterRodLevel1: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_heizstab_stufe_1
  heaterRodLevel2: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_heizstab_stufe_2
  linkDetails: /lovelace/hp-details
  linkSettings: /lovelace/hp-settings

```

## Contribution

Contributions are welcome! Submit pull requests or open issues for bugs, enhancements, or feature requests.
For translations to unsupported languages, you can use [en.json](./blob/main/dist/heat-pump-card/en.json) as template.

Commit message:

#24 readme update with advice for not matching sensors

README.md, after:

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg)](https://github.com/hacs/integration)

# Heat Pump card

Home Assistant dashboard card displaying heat pump parameters

![Example picture of the heat pump card.](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ManfredTremmel/lovelace-heat-pump-card/refs/heads/main/dist/heat-pump-card/heat-pump.svg)

## Installation

### Easiest method:

✨ Install via HACS

[![Open your Home Assistant instance and open a repository inside the Home Assistant Community Store.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/hacs_repository.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/hacs_repository/?owner=ManfredTremmel&repository=lovelace-heat-pump-card)

### Alternative method:

1. Download `Source code` file from the [Releases][releases] page
2. Unzip and upload all stuff out of dist folder to `/www/community/lovelace-heat-pump-card` (via Samba, File Editor, SSH, etc.)
3. Visit the Resources page in your Home Assistant install and add `/hacsfiles/lovelace-heat-pump-card/heat-pump-card.js` as a
   JavaScript Module.
   [![Open your Home Assistant instance and show your dashboard resources.](https://my.home-assistant.io/badges/lovelace_resources.svg)](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/lovelace_resources/)
4. Refresh your browser

## Options

| Name | Type | Requirement | Description
| ---- | ---- | ----------- | -----------
| title | string | optional | Title of the card, if empty no title is displayed
| heatingPumpType | string | optional | Chose between three types of heat pump: "A2W" (Air to Water), "W2W" (Water to Water) and "G2W" (Ground to Water), if not set, A2W is used as default
| temperatureGroundWaterIn | object | optional | Used for "W2W" and "G2W" heat pumps for input temerature
| temperatureGroundWaterOut | object | optional | Used for "W2W" and "G2W" heat pumps for output temerature
| heatingPumpStatusOnOff | object | optional | if heating pump is off, power symbol is displayed
| heatingPumpHotWaterMode | object | optional | Hot Water Mode, when on, faucet symbol is displayed
| heatingPumpHeatingMode | object | optional | if Heating Mode is on, radiator symbol is displayed
| heatingPumpCoolingMode | object | optional | in Cooling Mode, the cooling symbol is displayed
| heatingPumpPartyMode | object | optional | in Party Mode the drinking glass symbol and `ambientTemperatureParty` (when set) is displayed
| heatingPumpEnergySaveMode | object | optional | in Energy Saving Mode the piggybank symbol and `ambientTemperatureReduced` (when set) is displayed
| heatingPumpNightMode | object | optional | Night Mode switches between sun and moon symbol
| warning | object | optional | A warning symbol is displayed, when result is on
| error | object | optional | A error symbol is displayed, when result is on
| defrostMode | object | optional | A defrost mode symbol is displayed, when result is on
| outdoorTemperature | object | optional | Outdoor Temperature
| ambientTemperatureNormal | object | optional | Ambient Temperature normal
| ambientTemperatureReduced | object | optional | Ambient Temperature reduced (used when `heatingPumpEnergySaveMode` is on)
| ambientTemperatureParty | object | optional | Ambient Temperature Party (used when `heatingPumpPartyMode` is on)
| supplyTemperature | object | optional | Supply Temperature
| hpRunning | object | optional | when Primary Source is active, the fan animation is running
| compressorRunning | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Compressor is running
| circulatingPumpRunning | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Circulating Pump is running, if not defined, circulating pump is not displayed
| tankHP | boolean | optional | Binary setting to display buffer tank or not
| tankTempHPUp | object | optional | Buffer Temperature up, displayed in buffer tank and fill upper color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃). If not set, buffer tank is not displayed!
| tankTempHPMiddle | object | optional | Buffer Temperature middle, displayed in buffer tank and middle fill color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃), if not set, for calculating fill color above temperature - 5 ℃ is used
| tankTempHPDown | object | optional | Buffer Temperature down, displayed in buffer tank and lower fill color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃), if not set, for calculating fill color above temperature - 5 ℃ is used
| tankWW | boolean | optional | Binary setting to display hot water buffer tank or not
| tankTempWWUp | object | optional | Hot Water Buffer Temperature up, displayed in buffer tank and fill upper color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃). If not set, hot water path and tank is not displayed!
| tankTempWWMiddle | object | optional | Hot Water Buffer Temperature middle, displayed in buffer tank and middle fill color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃), if not set, for calculating fill color above temperature - 5 ℃ is used
| tankTempWWDown | object | optional | Hot Water Buffer Temperature down, displayed in buffer tank and lower fill color is set between blue (≦ 20 ℃) and red (≧ 60 ℃), if not set, for calculating fill color above temperature - 5 ℃ is used
| heatingCircuitType1 | string | optional | Type of first Heating Circuit, "off", "underfloor" or "radiator" default is "off" the circuit is hidden in this case
| heatingCircuitPumpBeforeValve | boolean | optional | Binary setting, when true, display the circuit pump before the valve
| heatingCircuitPumpRunning | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Heating Circuit Pump is running, if not defined, heating circuite pump is not displayed
| supplyTemperatureHeating | object | optional  | Supply Temperature Heating, when not defined heating pipe is not displayed
| refluxTemperatureHeating | object | optional | Reflux Temperature Heating
| heatingCircuitType2 | string | optional | Type of second Heating Circuit, "off", "underfloor" or "radiator" default is "off" the circuit is hidden in this case
| heatingCircuitPumpRunning2 | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Heating Circuit Pump is running, if not defined, heating circuite pump is not displayed
| supplyTemperatureHeating2 | object | optional  | Supply Temperature Heating, when not defined heating pipe is not displayed
| refluxTemperatureHeating2 | object | optional | Reflux Temperature Heating
| heatingCircuitType3 | string | optional | Type of third Heating Circuit, "off", "underfloor" or "radiator" default is "off" the circuit is hidden in this case
| heatingCircuitPumpRunning3 | object | optional | Binary sensor which detects if Heating Circuit Pump is running, if not defined, heating circuite pump is not displayed
| supplyTemperatureHeating3 | object | optional  | Supply Temperature Heating, when not defined heating pipe is not displayed
| refluxTemperatureHeating3 | object | optional | Reflux Temperature Heating
| evaporatorPressure | object | optional | Evaporator Pressure
| evaporatorTemperature | object | optional  | Evaporator Temperature
| condenserPressure | object | optional | Condenser Pressure
| condenserTemperature | object | optional | Condenser Temperature
| expansionValveOpening | object | optional | Opening Expansion Valve
| wwHeatingValve | object | optional  | Heating/Hot Water Valve
| heaterRodWW | object | optional | Heater Rod Hot Water is active and displayed in the buffer tank
| heaterRodHP | object | optional | Heater Rod Heating is active and displayed in the buffer tank
| heaterRodLevel1 | object | optional | Heater Rod is using Level 1, color is set to orange
| heaterRodLevel2 | object | optional | Heater Rod is using Level 2, color is set to red
| linkDetails | string | optional | Link to details page
| linkSettings | string | optional | Link to settings page

### Alternate sensor types

The sensor selectors are limited in the configuration UI to matching domains (e.g. binary sensor), this should reduce the long list of sensors to the relevant types.
If you need a sensor which is not shown in the list and you know it fulfills the requirements (for binarys e.g. it must provide "on" as value), you have to switch to the YAML mode and
configure it there.

If you don't have matching sensors, but the information is available, you may define template sensors and convert this information into the required format.
The template sensors, I've created, you can see in my [000_heatpump_mqtt_package.yaml](https://github.com/ManfredTremmel/home_assistant_config/blob/7fd0f860f5563e0ab104a041b8f921ebf3dbe424/packages/000_heatpump_mqtt_package.yaml#L832).

### Example

This are my settings for Viessmann Vitocal 350 heating pump with Vitotronic 200 controller, most stuff is provided by Vcontrol add-on (everything with `mosquitto_mqtt_broker` in the name),
additional binary_sensors I've created as helper to translate the heat pump modes to universal values. Otherwise a translation for each different heat pump needed to be integrated.

```yaml
- type: custom:heat-pump-card
  title: Wärmepumpe
  heatingPumpType: A2W
  temperatureGroundWaterIn: ""
  temperatureGroundWaterOut: ""
  heatingPumpStatusOnOff: binary_sensor.heating_pump_status_on_off
  heatingPumpHotWaterMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_hot_water_mode
  heatingPumpHeatingMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_heating_mode
  heatingPumpCoolingMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_cooling_mode
  heatingPumpPartyMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_party_mode
  heatingPumpEnergySaveMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_energy_save_mode
  heatingPumpNightMode: binary_sensor.heating_pump_night_mode
  warning: ""
  error: ""
  defrostMode: ""
  outdoorTemperature: sensor.mosquitto_broker_aussentemperatur
  ambientTemperatureNormal: number.mosquitto_broker_raumsolltemperatur_normal
  ambientTemperatureReduced: number.mosquitto_broker_raumsolltemperatur_reduziert
  ambientTemperatureParty: number.mosquitto_broker_raumsolltemperatur_party
  supplyTemperature: sensor.mosquitto_broker_anlagenvorlauftemperatur
  hpRunning: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_primaerquelle
  compressorRunning: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_verdichter
  circulatingPumpRunning: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_warmwasser_zirkulationspumpe
  tankHP: true
  tankTempHPUp: sensor.mosquitto_broker_pufferspeichertemperatur
  tankTempHPMiddle: ""
  tankTempHPDown: ""
  tankWW: true
  tankTempWWUp: sensor.mosquitto_broker_warmwassertemperatur_oben
  tankTempWWMiddle: ""
  tankTempWWDown: ""
  heatingCircuitType1: underfloor
  heatingCircuitPumpBeforeValve: false
  heatingCircuitPumpRunning: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_heizkreispumpe
  supplyTemperatureHeating: sensor.mosquitto_broker_vorlauftemperatur_heizkreis
  refluxTemperatureHeating: ""
  heatingCircuitType2: "off"
  heatingCircuitPumpRunning2: ""
  supplyTemperatureHeating2: ""
  refluxTemperatureHeating2: ""
  heatingCircuitType3: "off"
  heatingCircuitPumpRunning3: ""
  supplyTemperatureHeating3: ""
  refluxTemperatureHeating3: ""
  evaporatorPressure: sensor.mosquitto_broker_druck_im_verdampfer
  evaporatorTemperature: sensor.mosquitto_broker_temperatur_verdampfer
  condenserPressure: sensor.mosquitto_broker_druck_im_kondensator
  condenserTemperature: ""
  expansionValveOpening: ""
  wwHeatingValve: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_warmwasserventil
  heaterRodWW: switch.mosquitto_broker_freigabe_elektroheizung_fuer_ww_bereitung
  heaterRodHP: switch.mosquitto_broker_freigabe_heizen_mit_elektro
  heaterRodLevel1: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_heizstab_stufe_1
  heaterRodLevel2: binary_sensor.mosquitto_broker_status_heizstab_stufe_2
  linkDetails: /lovelace/hp-details
  linkSettings: /lovelace/hp-settings

```

## Contribution

Contributions are welcome! Submit pull requests or open issues for bugs, enhancements, or feature requests.
For translations to unsupported languages, you can use [en.json](./blob/main/dist/heat-pump-card/en.json) as template.
